1                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
            CENSUS OF POPULATION AND HOUSING, 1990 [UNITED STATES]:                                                                 
               MODIFIED AGE/RACE, SEX, AND HISPANIC ORIGIN (MARS)                                                                   
                              STATE AND COUNTY FILE                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                    
                                  (ICPSR 9878)                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                             Principal Investigator                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                    
                      United States Department of Commerce                                                                          
                              Bureau of the Census                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                               First ICPSR Release                                                                                  
                                  October 1992                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                         Inter-university Consortium for                                                                            
                          Political and Social Research                                                                             
                                  P.O. Box 1248                                                                                     
                            Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106                                                                               
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
1                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                    
1                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                             BIBLIOGRAPHIC CITATION                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
            Publications  based  on  ICPSR  data  collections  should                                                               
            acknowledge  those  sources  by  means  of  bibliographic                                                               
            citations.  To ensure that such source  attributions  are                                                               
            captured  for  social  science  bibliographic  utilities,                                                               
            citations must appear in footnotes or  in  the  reference                                                               
            section  of publications.  The bibliographic citation for                                                               
            this data collection is:                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                 U.S. Dept. of Commerce, Bureau of  the  Census.                                                                    
                 CENSUS  OF POPULATION AND HOUSING, 1990 [UNITED                                                                    
                 STATES]: MODIFIED AGE/RACE, SEX,  AND  HISPANIC                                                                    
                 ORIGIN  (MARS)  STATE AND COUNTY FILE [Computer                                                                    
                 file].  Washington, DC: U.S. Dept. of Commerce,                                                                    
                 Bureau  of  the  Census  [producer],  1992. Ann                                                                    
                 Arbor,  MI:  Inter-university  Consortium   for                                                                    
                 Political  and  Social  Research [distributor],                                                                    
                 1992.                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON USE OF ICPSR RESOURCES                                                                   
                                                                                                                                    
            To provide funding agencies  with  essential  information                                                               
            about  use  of  archival  resources and to facilitate the                                                               
            exchange  of  information   about   ICPSR   participants'                                                               
            research activities, users of ICPSR data are requested to                                                               
            send to ICPSR bibliographic citations for each  completed                                                               
            manuscript or thesis abstract. Please indicate in a cover                                                               
            letter which data were used.                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                 DATA DISCLAIMER                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
            The original  collector  of  the  data,  ICPSR,  and  the                                                               
            relevant  funding  agency bear no responsibility for uses                                                               
            of this collection or for interpretations  or  inferences                                                               
            based upon such uses.                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
1                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                    
1                                                                                                                                   
                          DATA COLLECTION DESCRIPTION                                                                               
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
       United States Department of Commerce. Bureau of the Census                                                                   
            CENSUS OF POPULATION  AND  HOUSING,  1990  [UNITED  STATES]:                                                            
       MODIFIED  AGE/RACE,  SEX,  AND  HISPANIC  ORIGIN (MARS) STATE AND                                                            
       COUNTY FILE (ICPSR 9878)                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                    
       SUMMARY: The MARS file contains modified race and age data  based                                                            
       on  the  1990  Census. Both race and age are tabulated by sex and                                                            
       Hispanic origin for several layers of geography.  The  race  data                                                            
       were  modified  to  make reporting categories comparable to those                                                            
       used by state  and  local  agencies.  The  1990  Census  included                                                            
       9,804,847  persons who checked the "other race" category and were                                                            
       therefore not included in one of the 15 racial categories  listed                                                            
       on  the  Census  form.  "Other race" is usually not an acceptable                                                            
       reporting category for state and local agencies.  Therefore,  the                                                            
       Census  Bureau assigned each "other race" person to the specified                                                            
       race reported by another person who was geographically close  and                                                            
       had  an  identical  response  to  the  Hispanic-origin  question.                                                            
       Hispanic origin was taken into account because over 95 percent of                                                            
       the "other race" persons were of Hispanic origin. Hispanic-origin                                                            
       persons may be of any race. The assignment of race  to  Hispanic-                                                            
       origin  persons  did not affect the Hispanic-origin category they                                                            
       checked (i.e, Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, etc.). Age data  were                                                            
       modified  because respondents tended to report age as of the date                                                            
       they completed the 1990 questionnaire, instead of  the  April  1,                                                            
       1990 Census date. In addition, there may have been a tendency for                                                            
       respondents to round up their ages if they were close  to  having                                                            
       birthdays.  Age  data for individuals in households were modified                                                            
       by adjusting the reported birth-year data by  race  and  sex  for                                                            
       each of the 1990 Census's 449 district offices to correspond with                                                            
       the national level quarterly  distribution  of  births  available                                                            
       from  the  National  Center  for  Health Statistics. The data for                                                            
       persons in group quarters were adjusted similarly, but on a state                                                            
       basis.  The  age  adjustment  affects  approximately  100 million                                                            
       people. In this file the adjusted age is one year different  from                                                            
       that reported in the 1990 Census.  CLASS IV                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                    
       UNIVERSE: All persons in the United States.                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                    
       NOTE: Data are provided for counties  with  state  totals.  State                                                            
       records can be identified by blanks in the county code field.                                                                
                                                                                                                                    
       EXTENT  OF   COLLECTION:   1   data   file   +   machine-readable                                                            
       documentation (text)                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                    
       DATA FORMAT: Logical Record Length                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                    
       File Structure: rectangular                                                                                                  
       Cases: 3,192                                                                                                                 
       Variables: 1,635                                                                                                             
       Record Length: 14,694                                                                                                        
       Records Per Case: 1                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
1                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                    
1                                                                                                                                   
                1990 CENSUS OF POPULATION AND HOUSING                                                                               
                                                                                                                                    
          Modified Age/Race, Sex and Hispanic Origin (MARS)                                                                         
                        State and County File                                                                                       
                              (STF-S-3)                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
This file documentation consists of the following materials:                                                                        
                                                                                                                                    
        Attachment 1            Abstract                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                    
        Attachment 2            Race and Age Modification                                                                           
                                                                                                                                    
        Attachment 3            Record Layout                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                 NOTE                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Questions about the subject matter should be directed to Population Division,                                                       
Bureau of the Census, Washington, DC 20233. Phone: (301) 763-5002.                                                                  
                                                                                                                                    
Questions about the tape should be directed to Data User Services Division,                                                         
Customer Services (Tapes), Bureau of the Census, Washington, DC 20233. Phone:                                                       
(301) 763-4100.                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                    
Questions about the accompanying documentation should be directed to Data User                                                      
Services Division, Data Access and Use Staff, Bureau of the Census, Washington,                                                     
DC 20233. Phone: (301) 763-2074.                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                           Revised June 1992                                                        
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
1                                                                                                                                   
 Page 2                                            ICPSR 9878                                                                       
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                             ATTACHMENT 1                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                    
                               ABSTRACT                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
 1990 Census of Population and Housing. Modified Age/Race, Sex and Hispanic                                                         
Origin (MARS) State and County File (STF-S-3) (machine-readable data file) /                                                        
conducted by the Bureau of the Census. -Washington: The Bureau (producer and                                                        
distributor), 1992                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Type of File                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                    
    Summary statistics.                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Universe Description                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                    
    All persons in the United States.                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Subject Matter Description                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                    
    The MARS file provides data from the 1990 census as well as similar                                                             
    information from a special census file where the age and race data have                                                         
    been "modified" to meet the needs of many users of census data. The race                                                        
    statistics were modified to be consistent with the classification used in                                                       
    data sets other than the census, while the age data were adjusted to                                                            
    correspond with the April 1, 1990 census date. These "modified" data are                                                        
    consistent with the counts of the 1990 census as enumerated.                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Geographic Coverage                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                    
    Data are provided for counties with State totals. State records can be                                                          
    identified by blanks in the county code field.                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Technical Description                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                    
        Record length:                 14,694 characters                                                                            
        Block length:                  29,388 characters                                                                            
        Data Set Name (DSN):           STFS3XUS.FO1xxxxx                                                                            
        Record count:                  3,192                                                                                        
        Block count:                   1,596                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
File Availability                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                    
    The file is available on 9 track tape or tape cartridge (LBM 3480                                                               
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
1                                                                                                                                   
 ICPSR 9878                                            Page 3                                                                       
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
    compatible) at 6250 bpi in ASCII format. The minimum price is $175 which                                                        
    includes the tape and a copy of this documentation. The documentation                                                           
    ordered separately is $10. When ordering, please use the order form at                                                          
    the end of this chapter. For more information contact Customer Services,                                                        
    Data User Services Division, Bureau of the Census, Washington, DC 20233.                                                        
    Phone: 301-763-4100.                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                           Revised June 1992                                                        
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
1                                                                                                                                   
 Page 4                                            ICPSR 9878                                                                       
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                             ATTACHMENT 2                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                    
                      Race and Age Modification                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
RACE MODIFICATION                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                    
There were 9,804,847 "Other race" persons included in the 1990 census. These                                                        
people were not included in one of the 15 racial categories listed on the                                                           
census form. The existence of this group is inconsistent with the race                                                              
categories defined by the Office of Management and Budget in OMB Directive 15.                                                      
Such "non-specified" race persons also are not found in data sources other                                                          
than the census. In order to serve the needs of some portions of the user                                                           
community it is necessary to assign each of these persons to a specified race.                                                      
                                                                                                                                    
After evaluating many alternatives, the following race assignment rule was                                                          
used: Assign each "Other race" person to the specified race reported by a                                                           
nearby person with an identical response to the Hispanic origin question. The                                                       
only alternative specifications which yielded significantly different National                                                      
results were those where responses to the Hispanic origin question were ignored                                                     
during the assignment of race. This work was done separately for each of the                                                        
 449 district offices.                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                    
Background Information on the Race Assignment Rule                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                    
  1. The specific Hispanic origin of each "Other race" person in the 1990                                                           
     census was taken into account when assigning them to a specified race.                                                         
     This was considered appropriate because over 95 percent of the "Other                                                          
     race" persons were of Hispanic origin. Their origin response was used,                                                         
     whether or not it had been allocated, in order to preserve the race                                                            
     distribution within each type of origin. The specific Hispanic origin                                                          
     responses were "not Spanish/Hispanic, Mexican Puerto Rican Cuban, and                                                          
     other Spanish/Hispanic."                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                    
  2. Virtually every person who reported both a specified race and an origin                                                        
     was included in the "donor pool" of eligible persons. The sole exception                                                       
     was the exclusion of several non-specific American Indian codes from the                                                       
     donor pool since: 1) prelimiary 1990 research suggested questionable                                                           
     reporting in the American Indian category and; 2) previous research                                                            
     showed that a high proportion of such persons were much less likely to be                                                      
     American Indians than those who actually provided a specific tribe                                                             
     response as instructed on the census form. These codes were: 548-Amerind                                                       
     White, 549-Amerind Black, 597-American Indian (no tribe reported), 598-                                                        
     American Indian (tribal responses not elsewhere classified), and 973-                                                          
     FOSDIC circle with no write-in response. These were excluded because                                                           
     of evidence from the 1980 census that misreporting of race was much                                                            
     higher in these codes than it was in codes representing specific American                                                      
     Indian tribes. Consistent with advisory committee recommendations, any                                                         
     person assigned to the American Indian race through allocation was given                                                       
     code 973 rather than a specfic tribal code.                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
1                                                                                                                                   
 ICPSR 9878                                            Page 5                                                                       
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
  3. The assignment of a specified race was made on an individual basis. That                                                       
     is, no effort was made to minimize racial heterogeneity within house-                                                          
     holds. Any such attempt would have made it difficult to assign race in a                                                       
     manner which approximated the specified-race distribution reported by                                                          
     persons with the same Hispanic origin response.                                                                                
                                                                                                                                    
  4. The race, origin, or sex of some persons also changed as a result of the                                                       
     assignment of a different age to them during the application of the age                                                        
     modification procedures. Their changed age sometimes caused the person                                                         
     to be allocated a different relationship and/or sex which resulted in                                                          
     the person receiving their race or origin from a different person in the                                                       
     household (Since those items were allocated according to a hierarchy of                                                        
     relationships).                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                    
  5. The results of the race modification procedures were overridden in four                                                        
     counties where the American Indian population grew by more than 100                                                            
     percent and also became at least one percentage point more of the                                                              
     county's population: Adams County, Washington; Harmon County, Oklahoma;                                                        
     Clark County, Idaho; and Washington County, Idaho. In each case the                                                            
     persons were made White.                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                    
  6. In most census allocation procedures, acceptable data from eligible                                                            
     persons (donors) are far more common than are the cases where the value                                                        
     is assigned to persons without the characteristic (the donees). This                                                           
     means information from any given donor is rarely used more than once.                                                          
     However, such large donor-to-donee ratios were not usual here. There                                                           
     were a number of occasions where those needing a specified race out-                                                           
     numbered those who reported the same origin as well as a specified race.                                                       
                                                                                                                                    
Special procedures were adopted to minimize the distortions produced by such                                                        
low ratios of donors to donees in some cells of these matrices. The most                                                            
important change was to expand each cell of every allocation matri to hold                                                          
 64 values, rather than the 8 stored in most 1990 census matrices. For each                                                         
district office, the initial race data were then obtained by running the actual                                                     
census file and storing up to the first 64 acceptable cases in each data                                                            
cell. If the district office did not have 64 cases the remaining values were                                                        
assumed to be White. After the matrices were so "warmed", the program went                                                          
back to the beginning of the data and began the race assignments. The actual                                                        
race assignment was a random selection from the unused values within each cell                                                      
If all 64 values had been used, then assignment was random from among all 64                                                        
until new acceptable cases were available. Used values in a cell were replaced                                                      
with acceptable data in reverse of the order of use.                                                                                
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
AGE MODIFICATION                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
The following is a portion of the text of a user note which is incorporated in                                                      
 1990 census products. It explains why the data were modified.                                                                      
                                                                                                                                    
"Age Reporting-Review of detailed 1990 information indicated that respondents                                                       
tended to provide their age as of the date of completion of the questionnaire,                                                      
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
1                                                                                                                                   
 Page 6                                            ICPSR 9878                                                                       
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
not their age as of April 1, 1990. In addition, there may have been a tendency                                                      
for respondents to round up their age if they were close to having a birthday.                                                      
It is likely that approximately 10 percent of persons in most age groups are                                                        
actually 1 year younger. For most single years of age, the misstatements are                                                        
largely offsetting. The problem is most pronounced at age 0 because persons                                                         
lost to age 1 may not have been fully offset by the inclusion of babies born                                                        
after April 1, 1990 and because there may have been more rounding up to age 1                                                       
to avoid reporting age as 0 years. (Age in completed months was not collected                                                       
for infants under age 1.)                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                    
The reporting of age 1 year older than age on April 1, 1990 is likely to have                                                       
been greater in areas where the census data were collected later in 1990."                                                          
                                                                                                                                    
About 95 percent of the population provided acceptable birth year responses                                                         
which were adjusted with the following procedures. The age data for individuals                                                     
in households were modified by adjusting the reported birth year data by race                                                       
and sex for each of the 1990 Census' 449 district offices to correspond with                                                        
the national level quarterly distribution of births available from the                                                              
National Center for Health Statistics. The data for persons in group quarters                                                       
were adjusted on a state basis to minimize the number of matrix cells with very                                                     
small numbers. The central assumption in this procedure is that there is no                                                         
reason for the residents of any subnational area to have a different quarter                                                        
of birth distribution from that found at the national level. It was also                                                            
assumed that there are no significant birth place-sex-race-origin differences                                                       
in annual birth distributions by quarter, that all those born before 1920                                                           
have the same quarter of birth distribution, and that mortality is not                                                              
selective by quarter of birth. Approximately 100 million persons have an age in                                                     
this modified file which is one year different from that they had in the 1990                                                       
census.                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                    
The modification procedure was done separately for each birth year, by sex, for                                                     
the White; Black; Asian or Pacific Islander; and American Indian, Eskimo, or                                                        
Aleut populations. For every birth year the program was provided with the                                                           
number of cases out of 10,000 where the birth year plus the person's age should                                                     
equal 1989 (most years that number was close to 7,500). These overall control                                                       
values were calculated from the available monthly birth statistics for the 1920                                                     
to 1989 period. Earlier birth years were each assumed to have the same seasonal                                                     
pattern as was exhibited by the unweighted average of the 1920-24 birth                                                             
cohorts. Each sex-race-origin cell was next randomly assigned a value of 0,                                                         
 0.25, 03, or 0.75. Then, each time that birth year cell was encountered, a                                                         
test was made to see if that birth year plus the person's age should equal1989                                                      
or 1990. The choice of an age was dependent on whether its acceptance moved the                                                     
cell's actual population distribution toward the control value distribution.                                                        
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
1                                                                                                                                   
 ICPSR 9878                                            Page 7                                                                       
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                             ATTACHMENT 3                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                    
                            Record Layout                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Character             Item Description                                                                                              
   1-2                FIPS State Code                                                                                               
   3-5                FIPS County Code                                                                                              
   6                  Blank                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                    
       Age =  Under 1 Year:                                                                                                         
   7-15               Hispanic Male: White                                                                                          
  16-24               Hispanic Male: Black                                                                                          
  25-33               Hispanic Male: America Indian, Eskimo, and Aleut                                                              
  34-42               Hispanic Male: Asian and Pacific Islander                                                                     
  43-51               Hispanic Female: White                                                                                        
  52-60               Hispanic Female: Black                                                                                        
  61-69               Hispanic Female: American Indian, Eskimo, and Aleut                                                           
  70-78               Hispanic Female: Asian and Pacific Islander                                                                   
  79-87               Not Hispanic Male: White                                                                                      
  88-96               Not Hispanic Male: Black                                                                                      
  97-105              Not Hispanic Male: America Indian, Eskimo, and Aleut                                                          
 106-114              Not Hispanic Male: Asian and Pacific Islander                                                                 
 115-123              Not Hispanic Female: White                                                                                    
 124-132              Not Hispanic Female: Black                                                                                    
 133-141              Not Hispanic Female: American Indian, Eskimo, and Aleut                                                       
 142-150              Not Hispanic Female: Asian and Pacific Islander                                                               
                                                                                                                                    
       Age = 1 Year:                                                                                                                
 151-294              Repeat Hispanic origin Sex, Race cells as above                                                               
                                                                                                                                    
       Age = 2 Years:                                                                                                               
 295-438              Repeat Hispanic origin, Sex, Race cells as above                                                              
                                                                                                                                    
       Age = 3 Years:                                                                                                               
 439-582              Repeat Hispanic origin, Sex, Race cells as above                                                              
       .                                                                                                                            
       .              Repeat single years of age                                                                                    
       .              (All data cells are 9 characters each)                                                                        
                                                                                                                                    
       Age = 98 Years:                                                                                                              
 14119-14262           Repeat Hispanic origin, Sex, Race cells as above                                                             
                                                                                                                                    
       Age = 99 Years:                                                                                                              
 14263-14406           Repeat Hispanic origin, Sex, Race cells as above                                                             
                                                                                                                                    
       Age = 100 Years:                                                                                                             
 14407-14550           Repeat Hispanic origin, Sex, Race cells as above                                                             
                                                                                                                                    
       Age = Total all ages:                                                                                                        
 14551-14694           Repeat Hispanic origin, Sex, Race cells as above                                                             
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
1                                                                                                                                   
 Page 8                                            ICPSR 9878                                                                       
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                        UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                                        
                                        Bureau of the Census                                                                        
                                        Washington, DC 20233-0001                                                                   
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                1990 CENSUS OF POPULATION AND HOUSING:                                                                              
          Modified Age/Race, Sex and Hispanic Origin (MARS)                                                                         
                        State and County File                                                                                       
                              (STF-S-3)                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                             USER NOTE 1                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
    The attached pages reflect changes In the MARS (SRF-S-3) technical                                                              
documentation. Please note that the record length and block length have been                                                        
changed. After replacing the contents page and abstract, this cover sheet may                                                       
be filed at the end of the documentation.                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                June 1992                                                           
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
    The above steps have been taken by ICPSR; this is the correct version.                                                          
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    September 1992                  
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
